IBM COMPANY MAILER Project Abstract BY RISHABH DARGAN ID- TGMC4707022

PROJECT ABSTRACT


Businesses usually adopt a common sense approach when it comes to spending the IT budget with cost being a major influence in purchasing decisions. However, when it comes to choosing a mail server, many businesses seem to pay less attention to the costs and, as a result, end up spending far more money than is necessary.

Today, email is absolutely mission-critical. Communication and collaboration keep your business running. Email and electronically enabled collaboration have become so embedded in normal day-to-day operations that many businesses simply could not function without them. Many businesses, however, have found that the cost of providing employees with the latest in messaging and collaboration technology is rapidly escalating. To meet modern business needs, mail servers have had to become more complex – and with that additional complexity come additional management burdens and costs. Furthermore, some mail servers have an upgrade process that is both extremely complex and extremely costly and which may necessitate the purchase of replacement server hardware. Combined, these factors place a considerable drain on corporate resources. The problem is especially severe for small and medium sized businesses (SMBs) which usually do not have access to the same financial or technical resources as large enterprises.

IBM Company Mailer is an Instant Mailing application which provides instant mailing services to all employees of the Organization. The employees working in metro or remote areas can connect through internet or approach nearby cafe to get these services. This web application is more effective, quick in providing instant access to their Organization’s Mailing System especially to employees who work from home.


Bluemix Services Used:
1.	dashDB
2.	WebSphere Application Server

Other Technologies Used:
1.	Eclipse IDE Mars
2.	Tomcat v8.0
3.  JDK 8


Conclusion:
The project titled as “IBM Company Mailer" has been designed with much care, with the intention to be easy to use and the complexity involved is presented in a simple and lucid style.

The advantages of the mailing System are
1. Security
2.Cost effective (may be Free of cost)
3.Less Mailing Time
4.Gift Incentives and many more...

The Intranet Mailing System works in a similar fashion as that of an Internet Mailing System, there is no need to get an internet connection for this mailing system. The various branches of the organization can be connected to a single host server and then an employee of one branch can send a message to an employee of another branch through server.

The users of Intranet Mailing are given a unique user-id and password is secure .
